Changelog 181 (#165)
intellij-rust/intellij-rust.github.io: _posts/2022-10-24-changelog-181.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #181"
date: 2022-10-24 13:00:00 +0300
---

## New Features

* [#9532] Enable [build script] evaluation by default.
  Now the plugin builds and executes all build scripts in the project (including build scripts in external dependencies)
  during project model loading to create source code generated during compilation and collect information about
  generated environment variables and `cfg` options. A typical use case is to generate some code by a build script
  and include it via `include!(concat!(env!("OUT_DIR"), "/path_to_generated_file.rs"))`. Now the plugin understands
  where generated code is located and includes them into its own analysis.
  Under the hood, build script evaluation uses `cargo check` call modified in a way to compile and execute only
  host code (i.e. only build scripts and procedural macros as well as their dependencies). Besides execution of
  build scripts code, it also allows the plugin to compile all procedural macro libraries which is required
  for procedural macro expansion.

>   Note, procedural macro expansion is still disabled by default. To turn it on, enable `org.rust.macros.proc`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Note, procedural macro expansion is still disabled by default. To turn it on, enable `org.rust.macros.proc`
  
  Read more about build scripts and how to work with them in Rust plugin in the corresponding [blog post](https://blog.jetbrains.com/rust/2022/10/24/evaluating-build-scripts-in-the-intellij-rust-plugin/)
```

  [experimental] feature

* [#9239] Support new Cargo features syntax from Rust 1.60.0. See [Rust release blog post] for more info about the
  syntax

* [#9429] Add `Inline type alias` refactoring in addition to existing intention `Substitute type alias`.

TODO gif

* [#9517] Provide code folding for `extern` blocks (`extern "C" { ... }`) (by [@Kobzol])

> * [#9502] Annotate usage of `wasm` [external ABI] as experimental

Reviewer: Let's move it to the end of section

* [#9459] Resolve and complete items from the stdlib in Rust files without a Cargo project (detached and scratch files)

* [#9451] Provide completion for `'static` lifetime (by [@Kobzol])

> * [#9443] Support adding imports for macros in [`Move refactoring`]
>   (currently only macros from dependency crates are supported)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9443] Add imports for macros by [`Move refactoring`].
  Currently, only macros from dependency crates are supported
```

> * [#9433] Take into account some stdlib macro types in completion sorting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9433] Take into account return type of some stdlib macros in completion sorting.
```

>   For example, Now `vec![]` will be bubbled up in the completion list if expected expression type is `Vec`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For example, now `vec![]` will be bubbled up in the completion list if expected expression type is `Vec`
```

## Performance Improvements

* [#9488] Fix IDE freezing on searching implementation via `Has Implementation` line marker in gutter

* [#9357] Slightly speed up name resolution

## Fixes

* [#9567] Fix possible stack overflow during type inference

> * [#9545] Fix resolve of absolute path when there is `extern crate` with alias

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9545] Fix name resolution of absolute path when there is `extern crate` with alias
```

Note, `resolve` cannot be used as a noun

> * [#9537] Fix `Attach file to module` quick fix. Now `File is not included in module tree` bar will disappear after

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9537] Fix `Attach file to module` quick-fix. Now `File is not included in module tree` bar will disappear after
```

>   attaching the file to a module tree

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  attaching the file to a module tree as expected
```

> * [#9510] Improve auto-import of items from same crate in some cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9510] Don't use private re-exports declared in the same crate by `Import` quick-fix
```

* [#9507] Improve error message for [`E0407`] error

> * [#9506] Don't reorder reexports of legacy macros when optimizing imports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9506] Don't reorder re-exports of legacy macros when optimizing imports
```

> * [#9504] Fix adding imports for return type in [`Change signature`] refactoring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9504] Add imports for return type by [`Change signature`] refactoring properly
```

> * [#9485] Fix handling of [`$crate`] in procedural macros in some cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9485] Handle [`$crate`] variable during procedural macro expansion properly
```

> * [#9430] fix inference of types with mixed type/const type arguments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9430] Fix inference of types with mixed type/const type arguments
```

* [#9416] Fix false-positive [E0117] in some cases

* [#9374] Fix nested loop/block labels shadowing

* [#9358] Fix `todo!()` macro type inference

> * [#9312], [#9558] Filter out attr and derive proc macros in usual macro calls completion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9312], [#9558] Filter out attribute and derive procedural macros in usual macro calls completion
```

> * [#9540] Fix proc macro expansion PSI cache invalidation. See issue [#9539] for more details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9540] Fix procedural macro expansion cache invalidation. See issue [#9539] for more details
```
